NEW RULES COULD INCREASE PAY FOR
UP TO FIVE MILLION U.S. WORKERS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY:
UNABLE TPAY O ITS DEBTS, GREECE
EDGES TOWARDS FINANCIAL RUIN.
>> I'M TERRIFIED, I'M ACTUALLY
TERRIFIED.
WE ARE A EUROPEAN COUNTRY AND
ITS HDINGEA TOWARDS THE FOURTH
WORLD.
>> Woodruff: PLUS...
>> TODAY, TODAY, TODAY
>> Woodruff: JAMES TAYLOR
REFLECTS ON A LIFE OF MUSIC AS
HE "COURTS THE MUSE" TO WRITE
AND PERFORM NEW SONGS.
>> LIFE AT THIS POINT, FOR ME,
IS PRETTY REALIZED.
IT'S PRETTY, SORT OF, THE BLANKS
ARE FILLED IN.
WHAT I SEEM TO FEEL MORE AND
MORE, AS TIME GOES BY, IS
GRATEFUL.
>> Woodruff: THO ARESE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Wooduff: THE NATION OF GREECE
RAN OUT OF BAILOUT MONEY TODAY
AND DEFAULTED ON A MAJOR DEBT
REPAYMENT.
THE ATHENS GOVERNMENT SUBMITTED
A LAST-MINUTE PROPOSAL TO KEEP
THE BAILOUT ALIVE, BUT IT MADE
LITTLE HEADWAY.
DESPITE THE UNCERTAINTY, U.S.
MARKETS AVOIDED NEW LOSSES.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED JUST OVER 20 POINTS TO
CLOSE BACK ABOVE 17,600.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 28 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED FIVE.
WE'LL HAVE AN UPDATE FROM
GREECE, LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT IS GOING
TO DECIDE WHETHER GOVERNMENT
EMPLOYEE UNIONS MAY FORCE NON-
MEMBERS TO PAY FEES.
THE COURT TODAY ACCEPTED THE
CASE OF 10 CALIFORNIA TEACHERS.
THEY SAY HAVING TO PAY UNION
DUES, WHEN THEY'RE NOT IN THE
UNION, VIOLATES THEIR FIRST
AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES IN HALF THE
STATES CONTRIBUTE TO SO-CALLED
"FAIR SHARE" FEES TO SUPPORT
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE OPENED HIS REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL BID TODAY,
DECLARING HE'S "OUT TO CHANGE
THE WORLD."
CHRISTIE FORMALLY LAUNCHED HIS
CAMPAIGN IN LIVINGSTON, JERSEY,
WHERE HE GREW UP.
HE SAID THE COUNTRY IS TIRED OF
"HANDWRINGING" IN THE WHITE
HOUSE.
>> IT'S LED US TO WEAK
LEADERSHIP IN WORLD WHERE OUR
FRIENDS CAN NO LONGER TRUST US
AND OUR ADVERSARIES NO LONGER
FEAR US.
THIS WEAKNESS AND INDECISIVENESS
IN THE OVAL OFFICE HAS SENT WAVE
OF ANXIETY THROUGH OUR COUNTRY,
BUT I'M HERE TODAY TO TELL YOU
THAT OUR ANXIETY CAN BE SWEPT
AWAY BY STRONG LEADERSHIP AND
DECISIVENESS TO LEAD AMERICA
AGAIN.
>> Wooduff: CHRISTIE HAS TWICE
BEEN ELECTED GOVERNOR IN
HEAVILY DEMOCRATIC NEW JERSEY,
BUT HE WAS HURT BY THE "BRIDGE-
GATE" SCANDAL.
THREE FORMER AIDES WERE ACCUSED
OF DELIBERATELY CREATING TRAFFIC
JAMS TO DO POLITICAL HARM TO A
DEMOCRATIC MAYOR.
ANOTHER REPUBLICAN HOPEFUL, JEB
BUSH, RELEASED HIS TAX RETURNS
TODAY GOING BACK TO 1981678 THEY
SHOW HE'S MADE $29 MILLION SINCE
2007, WHEN HE FINISHED TWO TERMS
AS GOVERNOR OF FLORIDA.
IT WAS LARGELY FROM CONSULTING
AND SPEAKING.
OVER THE LAST 30-PLUS YEARS,
BUSH PAID AN AVERAGE TAX RATE OF
36%.
INDINONESIA, MORE THAN 70
PEOPLE DIED TODAY WHEN AN AIR
FORCE TRANSPORT PLANE CRASHED IN
A RESIDENTIAL AREA.
THE C-130 AIRCRAFT WENT DOWN IN
MEDAN, THE COUNTRY'S THIRD
LARGEST CITY, JUST AFTER TAKE-
OFF.
THE PLANE SLAMMED INTO TWO
HOUSES AND A HOTEL, LEAVING
RESCUE CREWS TO COMB THE
WRECKAGE FOR SURVIVORS.
MORE THAN 100, MOSTLY TROOPS AND
THEIR FAMILIES, WERE BELIEVED TO
BE ON BOARD.
THERE'S WORD THAT ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS IN SYRIA HAVE BEHEADED
WOMEN FOR THE FIRST TIME.
SYRIAN ACTIVISTS REPORT TWO
WOMEN WERE EXECUTED IN THE PAST
WEEK IN THE EASTERN PROVINCE OF
DEIR EL-ZOUR.
THEY WERE ACCUSED OF PRACTICING
SORCERY.
IN THE LAST YEAR, THE ISLAMIC
STATE HAS BEHEADED DOZENS OF MEN
IN SYRIA, FOR VIOLATING ITS
EXTREME INTERPRETATION OF
ISLAMIC LAW.
BRAZIL ANNOUNCED A NEW EFFORT
TODAY TO STOP DEFORESTATION, AND
RE-PLANT AN AREA THE SIZE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
PRESIDENT DILMA ROUSSEFF MET
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA IN THE OVAL
OFFICE, AND LATER, LAID OUT HER
PLAN.
PLAN. >> (translated
): IN BRAZIL WE
>> (translated): IN
BRAZIL WE HAVE THE COMMITMENT TO
COME TO A
HAVE THE COMMITMENT TO COME TO A
ZERO DEFORESTATION OR A ZERO
ILLEGAL DEFORESTATION RATE
BETWEEN NOW AND 2030 AND WE ALSO
WISH TO TURN THE PAGE AND ENGAGE
IN A CLEAR CUT REFORESTATION
ORIENTED POLICY.
>> Wooduff: THE MAJORITY OF
BRAZIL'S GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS COME FROM DESTRUCTION
IN THE AMAZON RAIN FOREST.
MANY ENVIRONMENTALISTS WANT THAT
DESTRUCTION STOPPED ENTIRELY.
AND THE U.S. AND CUBA ARE SET TO
OPEN EMBASSIES IN WASHINGTON AND
HAVANA.
IT IS THE LATEST STEP IN
REESTABLISHING DIPLOMATIC TIES.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT IS SET FOR
TOMORROW.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
WHAT NEW OVERTIME RULES COULD
MEAN FOR WORKERS AND EMPLOYERS
IN THE U.S.
GREECE EDGES TOWARDS DEFAULT
AFR FATEILING TO PAY BACK DEBT.
A DEADLINE FOR A NUCLEAR DEAL
WITH IRAN IS EXTENDED.
WHY ANGOLA IS THE DEADLIEST
PLACE IN THE WORLD FOR CHILDREN.
NEW GUIDELINES FOR TREATING
STROKES THAT ARE CAUGHT EARLY.
JAMES TAYLOR ON HIS LATEST
ALBUM.
AND, AN ARGUMENT ON WHY MOM AND
DAD MIGHT BE YOUTH SPORTS
BIGGEST PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
CALLED FOR MAJOR CHANGES TODAY
THAT COULD SUBSTANTIALLY EXPAND
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE EARNING
OVERTIME.
UNDER CURRENT LABOR LAW, WORKERS
ARE SUPPOSED TO EARN OVERTIME
TIME AND A HALF, IF THEY PUT IN
MORE THAN 40 HOURS A WEEK.
BUT THOSE WHO EARN MORE THAN
$455 A WEEK, OR ABOUT $23,000 A
YEAR, AND ARE CLASSIFIED AS
"EXECUTIVES" ARE EXEMPT.
THAT USUALLY INCLUDES MANY
MANAGERS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WOULD LIKE TO
LIFT THAT SALARY CAP HIGHER IN
2016, SO THAT ALL WORKERS
EARNING UP TO $50,000 A YEAR
WOULD EARN OVERTIME.
MANY BUSINESSES ARE OPPOSED AND
HAVE SAID IT WOULD BACKFIRE.
WE RECENTLY SAT DOWN WITH DAVID
FRENCH, A SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT
AT THE NATIONAL RETAIL
FEDERATION.
EVEN BEFORE ALL OF THE DETAILS
WERE RELEASED, HE SAID IT WOULD
NOT HELP EMPLOYEES.
>> OUR ANALYSIS SAYS THAT
INSTEAD OF PROVIDING OVERTIME
FOR MILLIONS MORE WORKERS,
EMPLOYERS WILL MAKE RATIONAL
CHOICES AND THEY'RE GOING TO
SPREAD THE SAME AMOUNT OF MONEY
ACROSS A SLIGHTLY LARGER POOL OF
HOURLY AND PART-TIME WORKERS.
EVERY EMPLOYER WILL HAVE TO LOOK
AT THEIR JOBS AND DECIDE WHETHER
OR NOT THE JOB FUNCTIONS THEY
HAVE MATCH UP WITH THE
OBLIGATION TO PAY OVERTIME, AND
THEY'RE PROBABLY GOING TO
REDESIGN A LOT OF JOBS.
>>>> Woodruff: WE LOOK AT THESE
PROPOSED CHANGES AND THE
CONTROVERSY SURROUNDING THEM
WITH SECRETARY OF LABOR THOMAS
PEREZ.
HE JOINS ME TONIGHT FROM
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA.
SECRETARY PEREZ, THANK YOU FOR
BEING WITH US.
WHY IS IT THE RESPONSIBILITY OF
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO TELL
PRIVATE EMPLOYERS WHAT TO DO ON
OVERTIME?
>> WELL, THIS WAS PART OF THE
FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT IN
1937, A PIECE OF LEGISLATION
THAT F.D.R. CALLED ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT PIECES OF
LEGISLATION OTHER THAN SOCIAL
SECURITY TO PROTECT WORKERS.
AND UNDER THE STANDARDS ACT, IF
YOU WORK EXTRACK YOU SHOULD BE
PAID EXTRA.
IN 1975, IF YOU TOOK THE AMOUNT
OF MONEY THAT A SO-CALLED EXEMPT
EMPLOYEE WOULD MAKE AND SIMPLY
INDEXED IT TO INFLATION TODAY,
THEY SHOULD BE MAKING OVER
$1,000.
A HAPPENED IS THAT MANAGERS WHEN
I WAS A KID USED TO BE
MIDDLE-CLASS JOBS.
THEY WOULD BE PAID DECENTLY.
THEY WOULD BE PAIRED FAIRLY.
THEY WORKED OVER 40 HOURS, BUT
THEY WERE COMPENSATED.
WHAT HAPPENED IS IN 2004, THE
BUSH ADMINISTRATION PUT IN PLACE
A REGULATION THAT CHANGED THE
CALCULATION.
IT WAS A REGULATION DESIGNED TO
HELP EMPLOYERS AND HURT WORKERS.
AND IT HURT WORKERS BY MAKING
FAR MORE WORKERS WHO SHOULD BE
ELIGIBLE FOR OVERTIME NOT
ELIGIBLE FOR OVERTIME.
AND SO YOU HAVE SITUATIONS WHERE
PEOPLE WORK 60, 70 HOURS A WEEK
AND MAKING $25,000.
THAT'S A POVERTY WAGE WHEN
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT ALL THOSE
HOURS SOME THE PRESIDENT SAID,
WE NEED TO FIX THIS.
WE NEED TO MAKE IT FAIRER FOR
EVERYBODY.
>> Woodruff: HOW DID THE
ADMINISTRATION PICK THE NUMBER?
I GATHER THE CEILING IS UP FROM
THE 20s TO 50,000 A YEAR.
WHY PICK THAT NUMBER?
>> WE LOOKED AT THE 40%
PERCENTILE OF SALARIED WORKERS,
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE RESEARCH AT
THE 40th PERCENTILE NEW YORK
OUR JUDGMENT THAT WAS A GOOD
DEMARCATION LINE.
PEOPLE WHO ARE ABOVE THAT
40th PERCENTILE OR ABOUT
$50,000, THEY ARE PERFORMING
FUNCTIONS THAT WERE INTENDED BY
THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT TO
ENABLE THEM TO BE EXEMPT
EMPLOYEES.
PEOPLE BELOW THAT SHOULD BE
OVERTIME ELIGIBLE.
AND SO WE'RE FIXING THE
IMBALANCE THAT WAS CREATED FROM
THE 2004 REGULATION.
AND BY DOING THAT, WE'RE, AGAIN,
WE'RE TAKING THESE FOLKS WHO ARE
WORKING 60, 70 HOURS A WEEK AND
MAKING $35,000 AT THE MOST AND
SAYING THAT'S NOT FAIR.
YOU SHOULD BE
FAIRLY, BECAUSE THEY'RE
EFFECTIVELY WORKING TEN, 20
HOURS FOR FREE.
>> EXCUSE ME.
SO WHICH WORKERS MAINLY GOING TO
BENEFIT BY THIS, ASSUMING IT
TAKES PLACE?
>> THESE ARE MANAGERS.
THESE ARE THE FOLKS WHO OPEN THE
STORE.
THEY CLOSE THE STORE.
THEY HIRE WORKERS.
THEY MENTOR WORKERS.
THEY SWEEP THE FLOORS SOME DAYS
WHEN THAT'S NECESSARY.
THEY ARE THE MOST VALUABLE
EMPLOYEES IN THE WORKPLACE IN
MANY CASES.
AND WHAT'S HAPPENING RIGHT NOW
IS THEY'RE WORKING 60 HOURS.
THEY'RE NOT ABLE TO HAVE DINNER
WITH THEIR FAMILY.
THEY'RE MISSING OUT ON THE
P.T.A. MEETINGS.
BALLGAMES FOR THEIR KIDS, AND
THEY'RE DOING SO WHILE THEY CAN
BARELY MAKE ENDS MEET.
AND THAT'S NOT FAIR.
THIS IS WHAT IT MEANS TO BE
MIDDLE CLASS IN AMERICA.
MANAGERS USED TO BE MIDDLE-CLASS
JOBS.
THE PRESIDENT SAID HE WANTS THEM
TO BE MIDDLE CLASS AGAIN.
>> YOU'RE SAYING THIS IS MAINLY
RETAIL WORKERS.
I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT SOME OF
THE PUSHBACK COMING FROM
BUSINESSES.
THIS ARGUMENT THAT THIS WILL
LEAD MANY EMPLOYERS TO SIMPLY
CUT HOURS TO START HIRING MORE
PART-TIME WORKERS TO GET AROUND
THIS.
>> WELL, THAT'S NOT BEEN OUR
EXPERIENCE AND THAT'S NOT WHAT
THE RESEARCH DEMONSTRATES.
YOU KNOW, WE TALKED TO MANY,
MANY PEOPLE DURING THE COURSE OF
OUR OUTREACH ON THIS, AND, YOU
KNOW, ONE PERSON I SPOKE TO JUST
THIS MORNING WAS THE C.E.O. OF
H.E.B. GROCERY STORE, A $12
BILLION, 80,000 EMPLOYEE COMPANY
BASED IN TEXAS.
THEIR C.E.O. UNDERSTANDS THEIR
MOST PRECIOUS RESOURCE IS THEIR
WORKER.
THERE THEY ARE, 80,000 EMPLOYEES
STRONG.
WHAT HE SAID TO ME IS THIS IS
THE RIGHT THING TO DO AND IT'S A
SMART THING TO DO.
IF THESE FIRST-LINE SUPERVISORS
ARE SOME OF OUR MOST VALUABLE
EMPLOYEES.
OF COURSE WE SHOULD BE PAYING
THEM $50,000.
COMPLIANCE FOR US WILL BE VERY
EASILY OBTAINED.
THIS IS A LARGE RETAILER.
YOU KNOW, 80,000 EMPLOYEES
STRONG.
I TALKED TO RETAILER AFTER
RETAILER.
THEY UNDERSTAND, WHEN YOU INVEST
IN YOUR WORKERS, WHEN YOU TREAT
THEM FAIRLY, YOU CREATE A
VIRTUAL CYCLE AN YOU DO WELL FOR
YOUR WORKER AND YOUR BUSINESS.
>> JUST QUICKLY, QUOTING FROM
THAT RETAIL FEDERATION EXECUTIVE
WE HEARD FROM A MOMENT AGO, HE
SAID THIS IS GOING TO SPREAD THE
SAME AMOUNT OF MONEY OVER A
LARGER POOL OF HOURLY AND
PART-TIME WORKERS, ANDHE SAID
EMPLOYERS ARE GOING TO BE
REDESIGNING JOBS.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE THAT.
ACTUALLY, THEIR OWN REPORT
BELIES THAT WHEN YOU READ THE
ENTIRETY OF THAT REPORT.
WHAT WE'LL SEE AND WE TALKED TO
A LOT OF RETAILERS WHO SAID,
WELL, WE'RE PAYING OUR EMPLOYEE
ROUGHLY 45,000 DOLLARS.
WE HEARD THAT A LOT FROM
RETAILERS.
SO WHAT THIS MEANS IS YOUR MOST
VALUABLE EMPLOYEE OR SOME OF
YOUR MOST VALUABLE EMPLOYEES,
WHAT YOU WOULD HAVE TO DO HERE
IS YOU RAISE THEIR SALARY TO
$50,000 AND WHAT YOU GET FOR
THAT IS YOU CONTINUE TO HAVE
THIS LOYAL EMPLOYEE AND YOU BUY
THE CERTAINTY OF KNOWING THAT
THEY ARE AN EXEMPT EMPLOYEE.
RIGHT NOW THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
LITIGATION IN THE AFTERMATH OF
THE BUSH RULE BECAUSE THERE ARE
WAY TOO MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE
BEING CALLED EXEMPT EMPLOYEES
WHO ARE NOT EXEMPT EMPLOYEES
SOME PART OF WHAT WE'RE DOING
HERE IS MAKING THE RULE SIMPLER
BECAUSE THERE ARE WAY TOO MANY
PEOPLE WHO ARE BEING
MISCLASSIFIED AT THE MOMENT.
SO THAT WILL MAKE IT... THAT
WILL BE HELPFUL FOR EVERYBODY.
>> LET ME JUST FINALLY ASK YOU
VERY QUICKLY, SECRETARY PEREZ,
ABOUT THE SUPREME COURT
ANNOUNCING THAT IT IS GOING TO
TAKE UP A CASE INVOLVING THE
POWER OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE
UNIONS TO IMPOSE FEES ON
NON-UNION MEMBERS.
WHAT'S YOUR REACTION?
>> WELL, I THINK PUBLIC SECTOR
WORKERS, TEACHERS OR
FIREFIGHTERS, HOME HEALTH
WORKERS WHO WORK FOR STATES,
THEY DO GOD'S WORK.
THEY ARE SOME OF OUR MOST
IMPORTANT EMPLOYEES.
AND I THINK THE ABILITY TO HAVE
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING FOR THEM
IS CRIT.
THEY'RE NOT GETTING RICH.
THEY'RE DOING SOME OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT WORK.
AND I THINK COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING HAS BEEN KEY TO THEIR
SUCCESS.
AND THE PEOPLE WHO DON'T WANT TO
SIGN UP FOR THOSE TO PAY DUE,
THEY ACTUALLY BENEFIT FROM
THOSE, THE WORK THAT THESE
UNIONS ARE DOING TO GET HIGHER
WAGES AND FAIR TREATMENT IN THE
WORKPLACE.
SO THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO BE
FREE RIDERS, PAY NOTHING BUT GET
ALL THE BENEFITS.
AND STATES HAVE APPROPRIATELY
SAID, YOU CAN REQUIRE PEOPLE TO
PAY THEIR FAIR SHARE.
AND I THINK THAT'S THE RIGHT
THING TO DO.
AND I THINK THE COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING PROCESS FOR PUBLIC
SECTOR WORKERS IS CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT.
>> Woodruff: WE WANTED TO GET
YOUR REACTION.
WE THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
SECRETARY OF LABOR THOMAS PEREZ,
THANK YOU.
>> ALWAYS A PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: A LATE ATTEMPT BY
THE PRIME MINISTER OF GREECE
FAILED TO STOP THE COUNTRY FROM
BEING THE FIRST EVER DEVELOPED
NATION TO MISS A PAYMENT IT OWES
TO THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY
FUND.
PBS NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT MALCOM BRABANT
REPORTS FROM ATHENS, WHERE
ANXIETY RULED THE DAY.
>> Reporter: TEMPERS WERE
RUNNING HIGH ON THE FRONT LINES
IN ATHENS-- THE BANK MACHINES
WHERE PENSIONERS AND OTHERS
WAITED AGAIN FOR HOURS TO GET
THE EQUIVALENT OF $67.
THE EQUIVALENT OF $67. >> (
translated): WE CANNOT
GO
>> (translated): WE
CANNOT GO ON WITH OUR DAILY
BUSINESS.
ON WITH OUR DAILY BUSINESS.
THESE 60 EUROS ARE NOT ENOUGH TO
FEED THE FAMILY.
THE SITUATION IS VERY BAD.
>> Reporter: AND, IT MAY WELL
GET WORSE.
THE FINANCE MINISTER CONFIRMED
GREECE IS DEFAULTING ON A NEARLE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND,
THAT WAS DUE TODAY.
INSTEAD, HE EMPHASIZED SUNDAY'S
REFERENDUM ON WHETHER TO ACCEPT
MORE AUSTERITY MEASURES AS THE
PRICE OF A NEW BAILOUT.
PRICE OF A NEW BAILOUT. >>
(translated): THE MOST
>> (translated): THE
MOST IMPORTANT THING AT THIS
TIME IS
IMPORTANT THING AT THIS TIME IS
TO SECURE WITH SOBRIETY AND
HARMONY THE RIGHT OF THE GREEK
PEOPLE TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES ON
SUNDAY IN THE REFERENDUM.
>> Reporter: THIS EVENING,
THOUSANDS RALLIED OUTSIDE
PARLIAMENT, URGING A "YES" VOTE,
IN FAVOR OF WORKING OUT A DEAL
AND STAYING IN THE EURO-ZONE.
>> WHAT WE NEED NOW AS GREEKS IS
A DETERMINED GOVERNMENT TO
NEGOTIATE A GREEK WITH THE
CREDITORS AND PROMOTE
PROSPERITY, GROWTH AND HOPE.
HOPE IS WHAT THE GREEKS NEED AND
I THINK STAYING IN THE EURISO
THE ONLY WAY OF EMPOWERING HOPE.
>> Reporter: EVEN NOW, AT THE
11th HOUR, THE GOVERNMENT OF
ALEXIS TSIPRAS IS PUTTING FORTH
NEW PROPOSALS TO TRY TO SATISFY
ITS INTERNATIONAL CREDITORS.
IT WANTS TO EXTEND THE BAILOUT
UNDER NEW CONDITIONS.
THIS IS AN ARCHETYPICALLY GREEK
TACTIC OF TRYING TO ALTER THE
NEGOTIATIONS RIGHT AT THE LAST
MINUTE.
IT'S THE LATEST CURVE BALL FROM
A GOVERNMENT WHICH HAS IRRITATED
THE EUROPEAN UON ANIND THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND.
BUT THE GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA
MERKEL HAS MADE IT CLEAR THERE
WILL BE NO MORE NEGOTIATIONS
WITH GREECE UNTIL ITS REFERENDUM
ON SUNDAY.
IT WAS WIDELY REPORTED THAT
PRIME MINISTER TSIPRAS WANTS A
TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF BAILOUT
FUNDING, BUT THAT HE OFFERED NO
NEW ECONOMIC REFORMS TO SATISFY
CREDITORS.
OPPOSITION LAWMAKERS IN THE
GREEK PARLIAMENT SAID THE ONUS
IS ON TSIPRAS TO FIND A WAY OUT.
>> (translated): I
THINK TODAY
THINK TODAY IS THE LAST CHANCE
FOR THE
IS THE LAST CHANCE FOR THE
GOVERNMENT AND GREEK PRIME
MINISTER ALEXIS TSIPRAS
SPECIFICALLY TO ENSURE A SMOOTH
AND NORMAL WAY FORWARD.
HIS PARTY.AS A
>> Reporter: BUT OUTWARDLY AT
LEAST, GOVERNMENT SUPPORTERS
VOICED CONFIDENCE THAT ALL WILL
BE WELL.
BE WELL. >> (translated
): I AM CERTAIN
>> (translated): I AM
CERTAIN THAT EVERY DAY THAT
DAWNS BRINGS
THAT EVERY DAY THAT DAWNS BRINGS
US CLOSER RATHER THAN FURTHER
WITH EUROPE.
BECAUSE OUR HOME IS THE SAME, IT
IS COMMON AND OUR HOME IS
EUROPE.
I AM THEREFORE CERTAIN THAT THE
CREDITORS REALIZE, MINUTE BY
MINUTE, THE IMPORTANCE OF
STAYING TOGETHER AND NOT
DIVORCING.
>> Reporter: AS THE POLITICIANS
DEBATE, THE FEAR AMONG AVERAGE
GREEKS IS PALPABLE.
IN THE HOME OF BYRON RIGINOS, A
RETIREE, THE TELEVISN ISIO
ALWAYS ON, WITH ITS NEVER-ENDING
DIET OF BAD NEWS.
>> TODAY I WOULD DESCRIBE AS D-
DAY FOR GREECE.
D-DAY COULD TAKE THE NOTION OF
DESTRUCTION, DEMOLITION,
DEPLETION OF CASH INTO THE
A.T.M.'s AND TO THE BANKS.
D-DAY CAN HAVE MANY MEANINGS.
BUT THE GIST OF IT IS THAT WE
ARE ABOUT TO LOSE OUR COUNTRY
AND TO EXIT THE EUROZONE AND THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
AND THIS IS SOMETHING
UNBELIEVABLE.
>> Reporter: OTHERS, LIKE
DIMITRIS PAPAZIMOURIS, FACE THE
A POTENTIAL FUTURE WITH NO JOB.
HE'S ALREADY LOST 70 % OF HIS
SALARY AT AN ADVERTISING FIRM
SINCE THE CRISIS BEGAN.
>> I'M TERRIFIED, I'M ACTUALLY
TERRIFIED.
I THINK WE'RE TAKING A VERY
DANGERO TURUSN.
WHICH I COULDN'T IMAGINE WE
WOULD END UP WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
WE ARE A EUROPEAN COUNTRY AND
IT'S HEADING TOWARDS THE FOURTH
WORLD.
ALL OF THIS IS BEING WATCHED
CLOSELY IN WASHINGTON, WHERE
PRESIDENT OBAMA SOUGHT TODAY TO
PLAY DOWN THE POTENTIAL EFFECTS
ON THE U.S.
>> FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE THIS
IS NOT SOMETHING THAT WE BELIEVE
WILL HAVE A MAJOR SHOCK TO THE
SYSTEM.
BUT OBVIOUSLY IT'S VERY PAINFUL
FOR THE GREEK PEOPLE AND IT CAN
HAVE A SIGNIFICANT EFFECT ON
GROWTH RATES IN EUROPE.
>> Reporter: TONIGHT, A
CONFERENCE CALL OF EUROPEAN
FINANCE MINISTERS ENDED WITH
OFFICIALS SAYING ONLY THAT
THEY'LL HAVE ANOTHER CALL
TOMORROW MORNING.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW TO ANOTHER
MISSED DEADLINE-- THIS ONE
BETWEEN IRAN AND WORLD POWERS
OVER THAT COUNTRY'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM.
REPRESENTATIVES FROM IRAN AND
THE SO-CALLED P5 + 1, WHICH
INCLUDES THE U.S., HAVE GIVEN
THEMSELVES ANOTHER FULL WEEK TO
NEGOTIATE A FINAL DEAL.
THE ORIGINAL DEADLINE WAS
MIDNIGHT TONIGHT.
IN WASHINGTON, PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID THAT ANY FINAL DEAL MUST
BLOCK IRAN'S PATH TO A NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
>> I HAVE SAID FROM THE START I
WILL WALK AWAY FROM THE
NEGOTIATIONS IF IN FACT IT IS A
BAD DEAL.
IF WE CAN'T PROVIDE ASSURANCES
THAT THE PATHWAYS FOR IRAN
OBTAINING A NUCLEAR WEAPON ARE
CLOSED AND IF WE CAN'T VERIFY
THAT IF THE INSPECTIONS REGIME
IS INADEQUATE THEN WE ARE NOT
GOING TO GET A DEAL.
WE HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR TO THE
IRANIAN GOVERNMENT ABOUT THAT.
>> Woodruff: JEFFREY BROWN PICKS
UP THE STORY FROM HERE.
>> Brown: THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF AN
EXTENSION, COMING WITH JUST A
FEW HOURS TO SPARE, CAME IN
VIENNA, WHERE SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY IS MEETING WITH HIS
IRANIAN AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL
COUNTERPARTS.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN IS IN VIENNA
COVERING THE TALKS FOR BLOOMBERG
NEWS.
SO THIS EXTENSION MEANS THEY
OBVIOUSLY COULDN'T REACH THE
DEADLINE TONIGHT, BUT WHAT MORE
DOES IT MEAN?
WHERE DO THINGS STAND?
>> WELL, IN THE HOTEL RIGHT
BEHIND ME, WE HAVE ALL THE
DIFFERENT DELEGATIONS WHO ARE
MEETING LATE INTO THE NIGHT,
EVEN THOUGH THE PRINCIPLE,
SECRETARY KERRY, THE IRANIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER AND OTHERS MAY
HAVE TAKEN THEIR BREAK FOR THE
DAY, YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
NUCLEAR EXPERTS, SANCTIONS
EXPERTS AND OTHER CHIEF
NEGOTIATORS WORKING UNTIL ALMOST
1:00 A.M. EVERY NIGHT.
WHAT WE SAW HAPPEN TODAY WAS
THIS OFFICIAL EXTENSION OF THE
INTERIM ACCORD, WHICH BASICALLY
GAVE IRAN PARTIAL BUT NOT VERY
MUCH SANCTIONS RELIEF IN
EXCHANGE FOR THEM LIMITING THE
MOST SENSITIVE ASPECTS OF THEIR
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
AS YOU KNOW, THAT DEAL HAS BEEN
IN PLACE SINCE JANUARY OF LAST
YEAR.
AND SO THIS HAS NOW BEEN
EXTENDED UNTIL JULY 7th,
WHICH ESSENTIALLY GIVES THE TWO
SIDES ANOTHER WEEK TO TRY TO
HAMMER OUT THE REMAINING
DIFFERSES AND TO TRY TO GET IT
TO CONGRESS BEFORE THAT JULY
9th TRIGGER DATE, WHICH
WOULD GIVE CONGRESS AN EXTRA 30
DAYS OR TWO MONTHS TO ARGUE
ABOUT THE DEAL.
>> SO WHERE ARE THE KEY STICKING
POINTS AT THIS POINT?
WHAT DO YOU EXPECT THEM TO BE
DISCUSSING AND NEGOTIATING OVER
THESE COMING DAYS?
>> YEAH, THE MAIN PROBLEMS THAT
REMAIN ARE REALLY OVER ACCESS.
THAT MEANS WHAT KIND OF ACCESS
ARE THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC
ENERGY INSPECTORS, THE U.N.
ATOMIC INSPECTORS GOING TO HAVE
TO IRAN'S MOST SENSITIVE SITES.
THIS IS KEY BECAUSE IT'S NOT
ONLY ABOUT VERIFYING THE DEAL
GOING FORWARD.
IT'S ALSO ABOUT ANSWERING THIS
12-YEAR-OLD FILE FULL OF
QUESTIONS THAT THE IAEA HAS
ABOUT THE POTENTIAL MILITARY
DIMENSIONS OF IRAN'S NUCLEAR
WORK.
WE KNOW THAT IN THE PAST
ACCORDING TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE
AND OTHER INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES
IRAN WAS CONDUCTING
MILITARY-RELATED NUCLEAR
RESEARCH TOWARD A NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
THE QUESTION IS IRAN HAS NEVER
FESSED UP TO THAT.
I DON'T THINK THIS DEAL EXPECTS
THAT IRAN IS GOING TO COME OUT
WITH A FULL CONFESSION, BUT WHAT
THE NEGOTIATORS DO WANT IS
ACCESS TO THE SITE SO THEY CAN
LOOK AT DOCUMENTS, TALK TO
SCIENTISTS AND HAVE AN
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM WAS DOING IN THE
PAST TO MAKE SURE THAT IT KEEPS
LIMITS IN THE FUTURE AND IS NOT
ABLE TO GET A NUCLEAR WEAPON
GOING FORWARD.
>> Brown: SO TODAY WE HEARD
PRESIDENT OBAMA TALKING ABOUT
THE U.S. WOULD WALK AWAY IF IT'S
NOT A GOOD DEAL.
HOW IS THAT BEING INTERPRETED
THERE?
IS THAT SEEN AS ANY SORT OF
HARDENING OF THE U.S. POSITION?
>> LOOK, AT THIS POINT I DON'T
THINK WE CAN TALK ABOUT
HARDENING OF POSITIONS.
I THINK THAT'S ALMOST MIRRORING
WHAT THE AYATOLLAH KHAMENEI,
IRAN'S SUPREME LEADER, SAID A
WEEK AGO.
HE GAVE A REALLY TOUCH SPEECH IN
WHICH HE SAID IRAN HAS A NUMBER
OF RED LINES AND WE'RE NOT GOING
TO CROSS ANY OF THEM.
THE RED LINES HE LAID OUT ARE
THINGS IRAN HAD ALREADY AGREED
TO IN SWITZERLAND ON APRIL
2nd.
SO IT CAME AS A BIG SHOCK.
DOES THIS MEAN IRAN WILL BE
BACKSLIDING.
I'M TOLD BY U.S. NEGOTIATORS
THAT, IN FACT, IN THE
NEGOTIATING ROOM, IRAN HAS NOT
BEEN BACKSLIDING, BUT THE
AYATOLLAH KHAMENEI HAD TO STRONG
COME OUT WITH A STRONG STATEMENT
FOR PUBLIC CONSUMPTION.
I THINK OBAMA'S DOING SOMETHING
IN THE SAME WAY.
HE HAS TO COME OUT WITH A STRONG
STATEMENT FOR CAPITOL HILL BUT
FOR ALL OF THOSE PEOPLE IN THE
UNITED STATES WHO MAY BE
SUSPICIOUS OF A DEAL, NOT TO
MENTION ISRAEL, SAYING WE'RE
ONLY GOING TO TAKE A VERY GOOD
DEAL AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO
ACCEPT ANY BACKTRACKING.
THAT'S WHAT WAS AT PLAY.
BUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
NOTICE THERE HAVE BEEN POSITIVE
SIGNS, TOO.
JUST TODAY AYATOLLAH KHAMENEI
TWEETED A PICTURE OF HIS
NEGOTIATING TEAM DRESSED UP IN
PERFECT WHITE SCIENTIST JACKETS
JUST AS FOREIGN MINISTER DISA
REEF WAS COMING BACK HERE FROM
IRAN AND SAID SOMETHING HOW HE
HAD TOTAL TRUST IN HIS BRAVE
NEGOTIATORS.
SO THAT DEFINITELY SEEMS TO BE
PREPARING THE GROUND IN IRAN FOR
A DEAL COMING I WOULD SAY WITHIN
THE NEXT WEEK.
>> Brown: JUST VERY BRIEFLY,
INDIRA, I GATHER ON THE
SIDELINES THERE ARE CONTINUING
TALKS ABOUT AMERICANS STILL IN
PRISON IN IRAN.
DO WE KNOW WHETHER THAT'S
PLAYING INTO THESE NUCLEAR TALKS
AT ALL?
>> WELL, THERE ARE THOSE THREE
AMERICANS, PASTOR, A JOURNALIST
AND AN EX-MARINE WHO YOU
MENTIONED WHO ARE IMPRISONED IN
IRAN.
THE UNITED STATES SAYS THAT IN
EVERY SINGLE MEETING THAT THEY
HAVE WITH THE IRANIANS, THEY
ALWAYS BRING UP THOSE THREE MEN
AND A FOURTH FORMER F.B.I. AGENT
WHO HAS BEEN MISSING FOR MORE
THAN SEVEN YEARS.
THE ISSUE IS THEY DON'T WANT TO
TIE THOSE MEN'S FATE TO THE
TALKS.
THE AMERICANS HAVE ALWAYS SAID
THOSE MEN NEED TO BE RELEASED
WHETHER OR NOT THERE IS A
NUCLEAR DEAL.
YOU CAN BE SURE THAT, OF COURSE,
AT THIS MOMENT OF MAXIMUM
LEVERAGE, THAT THE UNITED STATES
IS PUSHING THEM VERY HARD ON
THIS, BUT I THINK THE MAIN POINT
IS EVEN IF THERE IS A NUCLEAR
DEAL, THE WHOLE WORLD IS NOT
GOING TO CHANGE.
THE U.S. AND IRAN ARE NOT GOING
TO BECOME FRIENDS.
THERE IS NOT GOING TO BE A
DETAUNT OR RAPPROCHEMENT.
THE UNITED STATES LAST WEEK
CALLED THEM STATE SPONSORS OF
TERROR AND HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSERS,
SO THE WHOLE WORLD IS NOT GOING
TO CHANGE.
THIS IS ABOUT A NUCLEAR DEAL AND
NOT MUCH MORE AT THIS POINT.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
INDIRA LAKSHMANAN IN VIENNA,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE CITY OF LUANDA,
ANGOLA'S CAPITAL, WAS RECENTLY
NAMED THE MOST EXPENSIVE CITY IN
THE WORLD TO LIVE IN FOR
EXPATRIATES, BEATING OUT TOKYO,
HONG KONG AND MOSCOW.
BUT IT ALSO BEARS THE
DISTINCTION AS THE COUNTRY WITH
THE HIGHEST CHILD MORTALITY RATE
IN THE WORLD.
THE TIES THAT BIND THE TWO:
CORRUPTION.
GWEN IFFIL PICKS UP THE STORY
FROM THERE.
>> Ifill: THE WEST AFRICAN
NATION OF ANGOLA IS A LAND OF
CONTRASTS, WHERE THE GAP BETWEEN
THE VERY RICH AND THE
DESPERATELY POOR IS SO GREAT,
THAT ITS MOST VULNERABLE
POPULATION, CHILDREN, ARE DYING
EVERY DAY.
NICHOLAS KRISTOF, THE OP-ED
COLUMNIST FOR THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," SPENT FIVE YEARS TRYING
TO GET A VISA INTO ANGOLA TO SEE
FOR HIMSELF, AND RECENTLY
RETURNED WITH STUNNING VIDEO.
HE TRAVELED THERE WITH VIDEO
JOURNALIST ADAM ELLICK.
>> THIS IS THE DEADLIEST COUNTRY
IN THE WORLD FOR KIDS, AND YET
THE GOVERNMENT HAD JUST CUT THE
HEALTH BUDGET BY 30%.
AT A SUNSET DANCE PARTY IN THE
CAPITAL, LUANDA, YOU'D NEVER
KNOW THERE'S A HEALTH CRISIS
HERE.
THAT'S THE CRAZY PART.
THIS COUNTRY IS ACTUALLY FILTHY
RICH, FLUSH WITH OIL AND
DIAMONDS.
THERE'S SO MUCH MONEY HERE THAT
A ONE-BEDROOM APARTMENT DOWNTOWN
CAN COST $12,000 A MONTH.
THE REAL PROBLEM IS IT'S JUST
SPECTACULARLY CORRUPT.
OFFICIALS HERE SPEND $50 MILLION
A YEAR ON LUXURY CARS ALONE.
JUDGES HERE GET JAGUARS TO
DRIVE.
AS KIDS PARISH AT THE HIGHEST
RATE IN THE WORLD.
PRESIDENT DOS SANTOS HAS RULED
FOR 36 YEARS THROUGH A BRUTAL
CIVIL WAR THAT ENDED IN 2002.
HE'S USED THE COUNTRY'S OIL
WELLS TO ENRICH HIS CRONIES AS
KIDS DIE, BUT I KNOW THE
PRESIDENT CARES ABOUT AT LEAST
ONE CHILD, AFTER ALL, HE TURNED
HIS DAUGHTER ISABEL INTO
AFRICA'S YOUNGEST BILLIONAIRE.
BOTH OF THEM IGNORED MY
INTERVIEW REQUESTS.
BUT IF YOU WANT THE GOVERNMENT'S
PERSPECTIVE ON HOW THINGS ARE
GOING HERE, LOOK AT THIS POSTER.
IT'S A WARNING ABOUT JUNK FOOD
ON THE WALLS OF MANY PUBLIC
HOSPITALS.
AND IT'S HANGING ABOVE KIDS
DYING OF MALNUTRITION.
ANGOLA, RICH OIL COUNTRY,
DIAMONDS.
HOW?
>> THE GOVERNMENT WON'T SPEND
THE MONEY THE MAKE IT CHANGE.
>> STEPHEN FOSTER IS AN AMERICAN
MISSIONARY SURGEON WHO HAS
WORKED FOR 37 YEARS IN ANGOLA.
HE RUNS A HOSPITAL FOR THE POOR
OVERLOOKING THE CITY OF LUONGO
IN SOUTHWEST ANGOLA.
>> NO NEED TO MAKE ANY
DISCOVERIES TO PREVENT TYPHOID
FEVER.
NO NEED TO MAKE ANY DISCOVERIES
TO PROVIDE BETTER NUTRITION.
>> THE REALITY IS THESE KIDS IN
THE HOSPITALS ARE THE LUCKY
ONES.
50% OF ANGOLANS DON'T HAVE
ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE AT ALL.
WHAT I'VE BEEN SEEING IN THE
LAST FEW DAY, KIDS DYING OF
MALARIA, SEVERE MALNUTRITION,
THAT'S THE BETTER HALF OF
ANGOLAN HEALTH CARE?
>> THAT'S WHAT IS HAPPENING.
YES.
EXACTLY.
>> Ifill: NICHOLAS KRISTOF
JOINS ME NOW.
THOSE PICTURES ARE SO TOUGH TO
LOOK AT AND THERE ARE SO MUCH
MORE ONLINE.
NICK, OF ALL THE PLACES YOU
TRAVELED, WHY ANGOLA?
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
LOOK AT CHILD MORTALITY
WORLDWIDE.
THERE ARE SIX MILLION KIDS A
YEAR DYING NECESSARILY BEFORE
THE AGE OF FIVE, AND ANGOLA IS A
GREAT PLACE THE LOOK AT THAT
BECAUSE THIS IS THE HIGHEST
CHILD MORTALITY RATE IN THE
WORLD AND IT'S A REMINDER THAT
WHAT WE NEED IS NOT JUST MORE
MONEY, BUT FRANKLY IMPROVING
GOVERNANCE AND PREVENTING
CORRUPTION.
>> WHAT ARE THESE CHILDREN DYING
OF?
WHAT ARE THEY SUFFERING FROM?
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S A WHOLE RANGE
OF THINGS, GWEN.
YOU HAVE MALARIA.
DIARRHEA.
IT'S MEASLES.
IT'S THINGS AS SIMPLE AS WORMS.
YOU CAN DEWORM A CHILD FOR ABOUT
5 CENTS A YEAR.
ONE PILL WILL DO IT.
AND YET WE SAW KIDS WHO WERE...
HAD SO MANY INTESTINAL PAR
SITES, THEY HAD BLOCKAGES IN
THEIR INTESTINES AND THEY WERE
ANEMIC AS A RESULT.
>> Ifill: THESE ARE
PREVENTABLE DISEASE, EVERYTHING
YOU'RE DESCRIBING HERE OR AT
LEAST CURABLE DISEASES.
WHY IS IT THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS
NOT SPENDING MONEY ON ITS HEALTH
CARE?
>> BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT A
PRIORITY.
THE PRESIDENT'S PRIORITY IS HIS
DAUGHTER, SO SHE DOES VERY WELL.
IT'S HIS CRONIES.
SO THEY DO VERY WELL.
TO SOME DEGREE IT'S THE
STABILITY OF THE COUNTRY AND SO
HE PAYS PEOPLE OFF THE MAKE SURE
THAT THEY WORK.
AND UNFORTUNATELY FOR THE REST
OF THE WORLD, INCLUDING THE
U.S., OUR PRIORITY IS TO KEEP
OIL FLOWING OUT OF ANGOLA AND
MAKING SURE THEY DO WELL, THE
OIL COMPANIES, AND NOBODY HAS
REALLY BEEN CONCERNED ABOUT THE
HALF OF ANGOLANS WHO DON'T GET
ANY HEALTH CARE AT ALL.
AND IN THAT CONTEXT, THEY DIE AT
EXTRAORDINARY RATES.
ONE IN SIX AN GET LAND CHILDREN
WILL DIE BY THE AGE OF FIVE.
>> Ifill: SO, NICK, IS THIS
ABOUT POVERTY OR CORRUPTION OR A
LITTLE BIT OF BOTH?
>> IN ESSENCE IT'S REALLY ABOUT
CORRUPTION.
ANGOLA HAS THE WEALTH AS A
COUNTRY.
IT'S GOT OIL.
IT'S GOT DIAMONDS.
AND IT DEPLOYS THOSE NATURAL
RESOURCES TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER CAN BE A
BILLIONAIRE, TO MAKE SURE THAT
JUDGES GET THEIR JAGUARS.
WHAT IT DOESN'T DO IS MAKE SURE
THAT EVERY CHILD GETS BED NET,
THAT EVERY CHILD TSGE DEWORMED.
SO YOU HAVE THESE CHILDREN DYING
OF COMPLETELY PREVENTABLE
DISEASES.
ONE WOMAN IN 35 WILL END UP
DYING IN CHILDBIRTH, COMPLETELY
UNNECESSARILY.
KIDS ARE NOT GOING TO SCHOOL.
AND SO POVERTY IS A PROBLEM, AS
A CONSEQUENCE OF THE PIE GOING
COMPLETELY TO THE ELITE UNDER
PRESIDENT DOS SANTOS AND THE
REST OF THE WORLD FRANKLY KIND
OF ACCEPTING THAT SITUATION
BECAUSE WE IN THE U.S. ARE
CARING ABOUT OUR OIL COMPANIES.
EUROPE IS CARING ABOUT ITS OIL
COMPANIES.
NOBODY IS REALLY CARING ABOUT
THE DISENFRANCHISED PEOPLE OF
ANGOLA.
>> Ifill: DOES THE U.S. HAVE A
FORMAL, BILATERAL RELATIONSHIP
WITH ANGOLA?
>> YES.
WE HAVE A REASONABLY FRIENDLY
RELATIONSHIP WITH ANGOLA BECAUSE
WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL OIL
INTERESTS THERE, AND ALSO IN
FAIRNESS ANGOLA HAS BEEN
REASONABLY HELPFUL IN TRYING TO
REACH MORE PEACE IN CONGO.
SECRETARY KERRY HAS VISITED
ANGOLA.
ANGOLAN LEADERS HAVE COME TO THE
U.S.
BUT NOBODY REALLY TALKS ABOUT
THESE BASIC ISSUES OF
GOVERNANCE.
YOU KNOW, I HAVE OFTEN
EMPATHIZED THAT WEALTHY
COUNTRIES SHOULD DONATE THE
ALLEVIATE POVERTY AROUND THE
WORLD, BUT ANGOLA IS A REMINDER
THEY IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT WEALTHY
COUNTRIES WRITING CHECKS.
IT'S ALSO ABOUT THEM HOLDING THE
FEET TO THE FIRE OF LEADERS OF
COUNTRIES LIKE ANGOLA TO MAKE
SURE THAT MONEY ISN'T JUST
STOLEN BY THE BILLIONS BUT
ACTUALLY IS DEPLOYED IN WAYS
THAT WILL SAVE LIVES.
>> HOW DOES ANGOLA RANK WITH
OTHER NATIONS OF ITS TYPE WHICH
ARE RICH IN NATURAL RICHES BUT
POOR OTHERWISE?
>> ANGOLA IS ONE OF THE LEAST
TRANSPARENT COUNTRIES IN THE
WORLD.
IT'S ONE OF THE MOST CORRUPT
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD BY
VARIOUS INDEXES, FROM
TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL,
THESEINDS K OF THINGS.
ACCORDING TO UNICEF, IT'S THE
SINGLE COUNTRY WITH THE VERY
HIGHEST CHILD MORTALITY RATE IN
THE WORLD.
THE IDEA THAT ANGOLA, YOU KNOW,
WITH ALL OF ITS WEALTH, HAS A
WORSE CHILD MORTALITY RATE THAN
NIGER, THAT BER KEY THAT FASO,
THAN SIERRA LEONE IS KIND OF
INCOMPREHENSIBLE AND THAT'S
SIMPLY BECAUSE THE LEADERSHIP
DOESN'T DEPLOY ITS WEALTH TO
MAKE A DIFFERENCE AND, IN FACT,
IS THIS YEAR CUTTING ITS HEALTH
BUDGET EVEN FURTHER.
>> Ifill: NICK KRISTOF OF "THE
NEW YORK TIMES," THANK YOU FOR
GOING WHERE WE ALWAYS CAN'T AND
BRINGING US THE STORY.
>> MY PLEASURE, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: NEARLY 800,000
AMERICANS SUFFER A STROKE EACH
YEAR, AND 130,000 DIE FROM ONE,
MAKING IT THE FIFTH LEADING
CAUSE OF DEATH IN THIS COUNTRY.
MOST STROKES ARE CAUSED BY A
BLOOD CLOT IN THE BRAIN.
THE RECOMMENDED TREATMENT IS A
DRUG CALLED T.P.A. TO DISSOLVE
IT.
BUT IT MUST BE GIVEN WITHIN
FOUR-AND-A-HALF HOURS AND FEWER
THAN FIVE PERCENT OF PEOPLE ARE
DIAGNOSED IN TIME.
NOW THE AMERICAN HEART
ASSOCIATION HAS RECOMMENDED
ANOTHER TREATMENT TO HELP:
IN MANY CASES, DOCTORS SHOULD
USE A STENT TO REMOVE THE CLOT.
DR. WILLIAM POWERS IS THE HEAD
OF THE PANEL THAT MADE THE
RECOMMENDATION.
HE'S THE CHIEF OF NEUROLOGY AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
AT CHAPEL HILL.
DR. POWERS, THANK YOU FOR BEING
WITH US.
FIRST OF ALL, EXPLAIN WHAT THIS
PROCEDURE IS, HOW DOES IT WORK.
>> WELL, THE PROCEDURE INVOLVES
MAKING A PUNCTURE IN A LARGE
ARTERY IN THE GROIN AND
THREADING A SMALL TUBE CALLED A
CATHETER UP THROUGH THE CHEST
AND UP THROUGH THE NECK AND INTO
THE HEAD AND THEN PUSHING THAT
CATHETER INTO THE BLOOD CLOT AND
INSIDE THAT CATHETER IS A STENT,
WHICH LOOKS LIKE A PIECE OF
ROLLED-UP CHICKEN WIRE.
YOU PULL THE CATHETER BACK.
THE STENT EXPANDS.
IT GRABS THE CLOT AND YOU PULL
THE STENT AND THE CLOT BACK OUT
OF THE BRAIN AND RELIEVE THE
BLOCKAGE IN THE BLOOD VESSEL AND
RESTORE BLOOD FLOW TO THE BRAIN.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS IS
DIFFERENT FROM THE STENT MANY
PEOPLE MAY BE HEARD OF THAT MAY
BE USED IN A BLOOD VESSEL IN THE
NECK OR HEART THAT GOES IN AND
EXPANDS THE BLOOD VESSEL?
>> WELL, IT'S THE SAME TYPE OF
STENT, THEY DO EXPAND, BUT IN
THIS CASE YOU DON'T LEAVE IT
THERE.
YOU JUST USE IT AS A SNARE TO
PULL THE BLOOD CLOT OUT.
>> Woodruff: WHO BENEFITS FROM
THIS?
>> SO THERE HAVE BEEN NOW FIVE
VERY, VERY NICE STUDIES THAT
HAVE LOOKED AT PEOPLE WHO HAVE
HAD THIS PROCEDURE AND COMPARED
THEM TO PEOPLE WHO DON'T.
AND BY IN LARGE, IT'S PEOPLE WHO
HAVE A LARGE CLOT IN ONE OF THE
LARGE VESSELS THAT SUPPLIES A
LARGE PART OF THE BRAIN, AND WHO
HAVE ALSO ALREADY RECEIVED I.V.
T.P. THE I.V. T.P.A.
DOESN'T RESOLVE THE LARGE CLOT,
AND THEY HAVE TO BE TREATED WITH
THIS STENT WITHIN SIX HOURS OF
THE ONSET OF THE STROKE.
>> SO IT WOULD BE USED WITH THIS
MEDICINE?
>> IT'S USED AFTER I.V. T.P.A.
IS GIVEN PRIMARILY.
IT MIGHT ALSO WORK WITH PEOPLE
WHO HAVEN'T GOTTEN I.V. T.P.A.,
BUT WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
EVIDENCE TO KNOW THAT AS OF YET.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ARE THE
POTENTIAL COMPLICATIONS?
>> IT'S VERY INTERESTING.
THE COMPLICATIONS WERE NO MORE
THAN PEOPLE WHO RECEIVED I.V.
T.P.A. ALONE, WHICH IS A 2% TO
3% RISK OF HEMORRHAGE FROM THE
I.V. T.P.A.
>> Woodruff: RIGHT NOW ARE
MOST PEOPLE TREATED WITH THIS
MEDICINE, THE T.P.A.?
>> WELL, UNFORTUNATELY MOST
PEOPLE DON'T GET TO THE HOSPITAL
IN TIME TO GET THE I.V. T.P.A.
AND PROBABLY 5% TO 10% OF PEOPLE
GET IT.
MANY, MANY, MANY MORE COULD IF
THEY GOT TO THE HOSPITAL ON
TIME.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU THINK
THIS RECOMMENDATION COMING FROM
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION
IS GOING TO MAKE?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I HOPE IT
DOES SEVERAL THINGS.
I HOPE IT MORE THAN ANYTHING
GETS PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE ARE TREATMENTS FOR ACUTE
STROKE.
WE NOW HAVE A NEW ONE THAT HELPS
EVEN MORE PEOPLE, BUT YOU HAVE
TO GET TO THE HOSPITAL QUICKLY,
WHICH MEANS CALL 911.
THE OTHER THING THAT I HOPE IT
DOES IS IT WILL ALLOW US TO SET
UP SYSTEMS OF CARE AROUND THE
COUNTRY, NOT EVERY HOSPITAL CAN
DO THIS NEW STENT WE TREEFER
TREATMENT.
SO WE NEED WAYS TO GET PEOPLE TO
LOCAL HOSPITALS TO GET THEIR
I.V. T.P.A. AND THEN IF THEY
BENEFIT TO CENTERS WHO DO THIS
TREATMENT.
>> Woodruff: SO THE HEART
ASSOCIATION IN THE PROCESS OF
MAKINGSURE DOCTORS GET THIS,
PHYSICIANS GET THIS TRAINING?
>> SO THERE ARE PHYSICIANS WHO
ARE TRAINED TO DO THIS.
AND THERE ARE TRAINING PROGRAMS
SET UP.
IT'S REALLY I THINK A QUESTION
MORE OF ORGANIZATION THAN OF THE
HEART ASSOCIATION WORRYING ABOUT
THE TRAINING.
>> Woodruff: AND IN ANY EVENT,
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS THE WORD
IS ALREADY OUT, BUT IT'S GOING
TO BE OUT EVEN MORE SO NOW AND
YOU'RE LOOKING TO HOSPITALS TO
IMPLEMENT THIS?
>> YEAH, I THINK SO.
SINCE THESE STUDIES WERE
PUBLISHED, I MEAN, OUR PRACTICE
AT OUR HOSPITAL HAS CHANGED
DRASTICALLY.
AND WE'VE SET UP A WHOLE NEW
SYSTEM OF CARE TO EFFICIENTLY
TAKE THESE PEOPLE IN FROM
OUTSIDE BY HELICOPTER BECAUSE WE
CAN OFFER THE TREATMENT AND GET
THEM THE TREATMENT THEY NEED.
>> DR. BILL POWERS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA,
THANK YOU FOR SHARING ALL THIS
WITH US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: "BEFORE THIS
WORLD": IT'S THE NAME OF A NEW
ALBUM FROM ONE OF THE ALL-TIME
GREAT SINGER-SONGWRITERS, JAMES
TAYLOR.
JEFFREY BROWN SPENT A DAY WITH
TAYLOR IN NEW YORK RECENTLY AND
HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Brown: "TODAY, TODAY, TODAY"
SINGS JAMES TAYLOR, BUT HIS
VOICE SEEMS BARELY CHANGED FROM
MANY YESTERDAYS, ENGRAINED IN
SEVERAL GENERATIONS OF MUSIC
LOVERS SINCE THE 1970's.
THESE ARE NEW SONGS FROM HIS
FIRST ALBUM OF ALL NEW MATERIAL
IN 13 YEARS.
AND THE WRITING OF THEM, HE TOLD
ME WHEN WE MET RECENTLY, HAS
ONLY GOTTEN HARDER.
>> IN THE BEGINNING THERE WAS A
KIND OF ENERGY, AN URGENCY TO
EXPRESS MYSELF, AND THE SONGS
JUST COULDN'T BE HELD IN.
BUT I THINK IT CHANGES, THE
NATURE OF HOW THAT, WHAT THAT
ENERGY IS.
I NEED TO COURT THE MUSE IN A
MUCH MORE SERIOUS WAY.
>> Brown: THAT EARLY URGENCY
EXPRESSED ITSELF IN DEEPLY
PERSONAL SONGS LIKE "SWEET BABY
JAMES" AND "FIRE AND RAIN," SOME
OF THEM BASED ON HIS BOUTS WITH
DEPRESSION AND DRUG ABUSE.
HE HAD HIS FIRST NUMBER ONE HIT
IN 1971 WITH "YOU'VE GOT A
FRIEND," WRITTEN BY HIS FRIEND
CAROLE KING.
I ASKED TAYLOR HOW WELL HE
REMEMBERS THOSE EARLY YEARS.
>> I REMEMBER THEM REALLY WELL.
THAT'S ANOTHER SURPRISING THING
ABOUT BEING 67, IS THAT WHEN I
WAS 17 I COULDN'T IMAGINE THAT,
FIRST OF ALL THAT I'D BE ALIVE
NOW, BUT IT JUST NEVER OCCURRED
TO ME THAT I WOULD HAVE ANYTHING
IN COMMON WITH SOMEONE WHO WAS
IT SEEMED TO ME LIKE THAT WAS A
DIFFERENT ANIMAL ENTIRELY.
AND THE SURPRISE IS THAT YOU'RE
THE SAME PERSON.
NOT ONLY DO I REMEMBER THOSE
DAYS WELL, THAT'S BASICALLY JUST
YESTERDAY, YOU KNOW?
>> Brown: SO YOU SEE A PRETTY
DIRECT LINE, NOT A LOT OF
DIFFERENT LIVES, THIS IS ONE
LIFE?
>> YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT,
ABSOLUTELY, WELL PUT.
IT'S THE SAME LIFE AND YOU KNOW
I REALLY DID LAND ON MY FEET.
>> Brown: LAND ON HIS FEET AND
OVER THE YEARS SELL MORE THAN
100 MILLION RECORDS.
TAYLOR HAS CONTINUED TO PERFORM
AROUND THE WORLD, AND HE'S
RELEASED ALBUMS IN RECENT YEARS
OF LIVE OR OLDER MATERIAL.
WHEN NOT ON THE ROAD, TAYLOR
LIVES IN WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS
WITH KIM, HIS WIFE OF 29 YEARS
AND THEIR TWIN 14-YEAR-OLD BOYS.
HE HAS TWO GROWN CHILDREN, BOTH
MUSIANS,CI FROM HIS EARLIER
MARRIAGE TO CARLY SIMON.
ON THE NEW ALBUM, WITH HELP FROM
FRIENDS INCLUDING STING AND YO
YO MA, TAYLOR RETURNS TO MANY
ABIDING THEMES:
>> WHAT A FATHER AND SON IS,
BECAUSE THAT'S SOMEHOW CENTRAL
TO ME.
THE IDEA OF A SIMPLE LIFE, AS
OPPOSED TO A COMPLEX AND
EXCITING LIFE, THE IDEA OF
GETTING THE BALANCE RIGHT IN ALL
THOSE THINGS.
A CERTAIN KIND OF LOVE SONG,
FAREWELL SONGS TO PEOPLE THAT
I'VE LOST.
>> Brown: ONE SONG IS ABOUT
TAYLOR'S GRANDMOTHER, A DIEHARD
RED SOX FAN, EXPERIENCING HER
TEAM WINNING THE WORLD SERIES IN
2004 AFTER WAITING 86 YEARS.
THAT'S GREAT FOR ME AS A RED SOX
FAN.
ARE YOU AFRAID OF ANTAGONIZING
THE REST OF THE COUNTRY?
>> I'M A LITTLE WORRIED ABOUT
THAT, YES.
>> Brown: BUT THIS BRINGS UP
SOMETHING I'VE OFTEN THOUGHT
ABOUT YOU: YOU'RE NOT AFRAID TO
BE, I DON'T KNOW IF CORNY IS THE
RIGHT WORD-- ME PSOEOPLE WOULD
CALL THAT A LITTLE CORNY, RIGHT?
>> I AM VERY UNCOOL.
I AM VERY UNCOOL.
YOU KNOW, IT DRIVES MY WIFE
CRAZY SOMETIMES.
I AM CORNY AND I AM NOT AT ALL
COOL.
>> Brown: BUT DO YOU THINK IT IS
THAT WILLINGNESS TO WEAR YOUR
HEART ON YOUR SLEEVE, IN A
SENSE, THAT'S THE KEY TO SOME OF
THOSE SONGS THAT PEOPLE GREW UP
>> I THINK THAT'S THE WHOLE
POINT.
THAT'S THE WHOLE POINT, IS TO BE
AVAILABLE, JUST TO BE AVAILABLE,
THAT'S WHAT A LOT OF THESE SONGS
JUST COME RIGHT OUT AND SAY IT,
YEAH.
>> Brown: TO BE AVAILABLE MEANS
WHAT?
>> TO SORT OF RISK YOURSELF, IN
A WAY.
TO VENTURE YOURSELF.
>> DO YOU DO THIS FOR YOURSELF
AT THIS POINT? OR FOR FANS? WHO
ARE YOU WRITING FOR ANYMORE?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
I MEAN, LIFE AT THIS POINT, FOR
ME, IS PRETTY REALIZED.
IT'S PRETTY, SORT OF, THE BLANKS
ARE FILLED IN.
I KNOW WHO I LOVE.
I KNOW WHO MY FAMILY IS.
I KNOW WHO MY MUSICAL COMMUNITY
IS THAT I WORK WITH.
I HAVE FRIENDS WHO DO THIS ALSO,
WHO BASICALLY SAY, YOU KNOW
WHAT, I DON'T THINK, I'M NOT
THAT MOTIVATED BY IT ANYMORE.
I'M NOT THAT INTERESTED IN
HAVING PEOPLE'S ATTENTION OR,
YOU KNOW, HAVING THEM FOCUS ON
ME.
BUT I SEEM TO BE ENDLESSLY
INTERESTED IN IT.
AND I LIKE MY AUDIENCE, TOO.
WHAT I SEEM TO FEEL MORE AND
MORE, AS TIME GOES BY, IS
GRATEFUL.
>> Brown: GRATEFUL TO THE
AUDIENCE?
>> GRATEFUL FOR ALL I'VE BEEN
GIVEN.
>> Brown: THE NEWLY-RELEASED,
"BEFORE THIS WORLD," QUICKLY HIT
NUMBER ONE ON THE BILLBOARD 200,
GIVING JAMES TAYLOR-- REMARKABLY
ENOUGH-- HIS FIRST-EVER CHART-
TOPPING ALBUM.
FROM NEW YORK, I'M JEFFREY BROWN
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT WE REPRISE
WHAT HAS BEEN A LONG-STANDING
PBS NEWSHOUR TRADITION: ESSAYS
ON TELEVISION.
WE KICK OFF AGAIN WITH AUTHOR
AND FATHER DANIEL PINK.
TONIGHT HE SPEAKS TO FAMILIES
AND THE THEIR CHILD ATHLETES.
>> Brown: AMERICA HAS A
PROBLEM WITH YOUTH SPORTS.
THIS PROBLEM HAS A NAME.
TWO NAMES ACTUALLY.
MOM AND DAD.
THE REAL ISSUE ISN'T WHAT YOU
MIGHT THINK.
WE ALREADY KNOW THAT SOME SPORTS
PARENTS ARE COMPLETELY NUTS,
LIKE MOTHERS WHO SUE THE LEAGUE
WHEN THEIR PRECIOUS PROGENY
DON'T GET ENOUGH PLAYING TIME,
OR HYPER COMPETITIVE FATHERS WHO
GOT CUT FROM THEIR HIGH SCHOOL
TEAM AND ARE NOW TAKING REVENGE
BY THREATENING VOLUNTEER
REFEREES OR BARKING AT PRE-TEEN
GIRLS.
NO, THE DEEPER CONCERN MIGHT BE
WITH ALL THE OTHER PARENTS, THE
GOOD ONES, THE NICE OES,N
PARENTS LIKE ME, WHO COME TO
GAMES AND CHEER FOR THE PLAYERS
AND SHOUT, "IT'S OKAY," WHEN OUR
SONS AND DAUGHTERS STRIKE OUT.
WE'RE PART OF THE PROBLEM, TOO.
IT'S TIME FOR US TO GET OUT OF
THE WAY.
FOR THE SAKE OF OUR CHILDREN,
LET'S BAN PARENTS, ALL PARENTS,
NOT JUST THE WACKOS, FROM
ATTENDING MOST OF THEIR KIDS'
GAMES.
LET'S STEP OFF THE SIDELINE AND
CLIMB DOWN FROM THE BLEACHERS
AND MAKE YOUTH SPORTS A
PARENT-FREE ZONE.
NOW HEAR ME OUT ON THIS.
IN MANY PLACES ATTENDING YOUR
KIDS' SPORTING EVENTS HAS
SOMEHOW BECOME A LEADING
INDICATOR OF PARENTAL
AWESOMENESS.
CAN'T STAY LATE TODAY.
GOT TO GO TO MARIA'S SOCCER
MATCH.
I HAVEN'T MISSED ONE OF BILLIE'S
BASKETBALL GAMES FOR THREE
YEARS.
GOOD FOR YOU.
BUT IS IT REALLY GOOD FOR YOUR
KIDS?
IF WE FEEL LIKE WE'RE INVESTING
OUR TIME AND ATTENTION, DON'T WE
THEN EXPECT SOME KIND OF RETURN,
FROM A TEN-YEAR-OLD, WHO IS
HITTING A BALL WITH A STICK?
WHAT FEW OF US WELL-MEANING
PARENTS REALIZE BUT WHAT ANY
PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE WILL TELL
YOU IS WHEN KIDS LOOK TO US ON
THE SIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OR
CONSOLATION OR EVEN ORANGE
SLICES, PARTS OF THEM IS
DISTRACTED FROM WHAT REALLY
COUNTS, THE MASTERY OF SOMETHING
DIFFICULT, THE OBLIGATION THE
TEAMMATES, THE GAME ITSELF.
SITTING THERE IN OUR FOLDING
CHAIRS CAN PREVENT CHILDREN FROM
STANDING ON THEIR OWN TWO FEET.
IF THEY SUCCEED ON THE FIELD,
THEY, NOT US, DESERVE THE JOY.
IF THEY FAIL, AND THEY WILL A
LOT, THEY, NOT US, HAVE TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO RESPOND.
MAYBE THAT'S WHY RESEARCH HAS
SHOWN ORGANIZED SPORTS INHIBIT
KIDS' CREATIVITY BUT PICK-UP
GAMES ACTUALLY ENHANCE IT.
BESIDES, AT THEIR HEART, SPORTS
ARE ABOUT SCORING.
IF WE'RE NOT IN THE STANDS, THE
KIDS ARE THE STORY.
THEY GET TO TELL US WHAT WENT
WELL AND WHAT DIDN'T, INSTEAD OF
US TELLING THEM FROM THE FRONT
SEAT OF THE CAR RIDE HOME.
THINK ABOUT IT.
COMPARED TO OTHER PARTS OF OUR
CHILDREN'S LIVES, SPORTS ARE
BIZARRELY PARENT-CENTRIC.
WE DON'T GATHER IN THE BACK OF
ALGEBRA CLASS AND WATCH STUDENTS
SOLVE QUADRATIC EQUATIONS.
IN MUSIC AND DANS AND THEATER WE
DON'T ATTEND EVERY PRACTICE,
LESSON AND REHEARSAL.
WE SHOW UP FOR AN OCCASIONAL
PERFORMANCE, KEEP OUR MOUTHS
SHUT AND APPLAUD LIKE CRAZY WHEN
IT'S OVER.
SO HERE'S A BETTER IDEA.
ESPECIALLY FOR THE LEGIONS OF
PAUNCHY, STRESSED-OUT,
MIDDLE-AGED SOULS OUT THERE,
LET'S BANISH PARENTS FROM YOUTH
FIELDS AND ARRANGE FOR MOMS AND
DADS TO PLAY SOCCER, SOFTBALL,
BASKETBALL, WHATEVER THEMSELVES
WHEN THEIR CHILDREN HAVE A GAME.
OUR KIDS WOULD GET MORE FREEDOM,
WE PARENTS WOULD GET MORE
EXERCISE, AND ALL OF US WOULD
REMEMBER WHY WE LOVE SPORTS.
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT ON
FRONTLINE: "GROWING UP TRANS," A
POWERFUL LOOK AT THE LIVES OF
TRANSGENDER CHILDREN, THROUGH
THEIR OWN EYES.
INTERVIEWS WITH KIDS AND
DOCUMENTING FAMILY CONVERSATIONS
REVEAL PARENTS WHO STRUGGLE TO
COME TO TERMS WITH THEIR CHILD'S
NEW IDENTITY AND THE CHALLENGE
CHILDREN FACE TO GAIN ACCEPTANCE
AMONGHEIR T PEERS.
>> FOR ME, THE AGE THAT
EVERYTHING STARTED TO HAPPEN WAS
AROUND FIFTH GRADE.
I STARTED REALLY GOING THROUGH
PUBERTY.
THAT WAS-- THAT IS HORRIBLE.
I HATE IT.
I MEAN, FOR ANY TRANSGENDER,
MALE OR FEMALE, IT'S PROBABLY
THE WORST TIME IN THEIR LIFE
BECAUSE THEY'RE ACTUALLY
BECOMING WHAT THEY DON'T WANT TO
BECOME.
I WAS WEARING THREE SPORTS BRAS.
I WAS VERY SELF-CONSCIOUS OF MY
CHEST BECAUSE GUYS OBVIOUSLY DO
NOT HAVE A CHEST.
THEY ARE FLAT, COMPLETELY.
AND SO BEFORE THAT, I WAS ABLE
TO PASS.
I WAS ABLE TO KIND OF BE A GUY.
BUT THEN ONCE THAT STARTED
HAPPENING, I WAS, LIKE, "OH,
THAT IS NOT GOING TO HELP MY
APPEARANCE MUCH.
YIKES!"
IN MY MIND, I SAW THIS REALLY
STRONG, FLAT-CHESTED GUY THAT
HAD AN ADAM'S APPLE AND A BEARD.
WHEN I LOOKED IN THE MIRROR, I
SAW THIS SMALL GIRL WHO WAS NOT
SUPPOSED TO LOOK LIKE THAT.
I FELT LIKE I JUST NEEDED TO
LOOK THE WAY I LOOKED IN MY
HEAD, TO BE WHO I WAS AND FEEL
COMFORTABLE WITH WHO I AM.
>> THIS YEAR, AT THE AGE OF 13,
ALEX BEGAN TO TRANSITION AND
FORMALLY CHANGED HIS NAME IN
SCHOOL, WHERE EVERYONE HAD KNOWN
HIM AS KAREN.
>> MIDDLE SCHOOL CAN BE KIND OF
A SCARY TIME FOR LOTS OF PEOPLE.
EVEN AFTER I STARTED REALLY
TRANSITIONING, I WOULD-- I WOULD
WANT TO STAY HOME BECAUSE I KNOW
THAT EVERYONE THERE KNEW ME AS A
REAL GIRL.
I CAN FEEL THEM KIND OF, LIKE,
WONDERING WHY I COULDN'T JUST BE
A TOMBOY, WHY I COULDN'T JUST
DRESS LIKE A GUY AND I DIDN'T
HAVE TO BECOME A GUY.
SO INSTEAD OF CALLING ME, LIKE
"HE'S," AND BY THE MALE
PRONOUNS, THEY'LL CALL ME "IT"
BECAUSE I'M KIND OF IN THE
MIDDLE.
I MEAN, I CAN DEAL WITH THAT.
I DON'T REALLY LIKE IT, BUT I
HAVE A MINIMUM AMOUNT OF
FRIENDS.
I WANT TO KEEP THE FRIENDS THAT
I HAVE, SO I KIND OF JUST LET IT
GO.
>> Woodruff: WATCH FRONTLINE'S
"GROWING UP TRANS" TONIGHT ON
MOST PBS STATIONS.
ALSO, ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE,
THERE'S NO WORD FOR IT IN
ENGLISH, BUT IN DANISH, THE WORD
"HYGGE" MEANS "LIVING IN THE
MOMENT" OR FEELING COZY.
SO WHAT GOT LOST IN TRANSLATION?
WE CONTINUE OUR WORK-BALANCE
WEEK BY EXPLORING DENMARK'S
APPROACH TO WELL BEING AND
HAPPINESS.
FIND THAT STORY, PLUS EXAMPLES
AND SPEAKING OF WELL BEING, YOU
CAN RELAX A LITTLE LONGER THIS
EVENING, THAT'S BECAUSE AN EXTRA
SECOND WILL BE ADDED TO THE
CLOCK TONIGHT.
KNOWN AS THE "LEAP SECOND," IT'S
SCIENCE'S WAY OF CALIBRATING OUR
PERCEPTION OF THE SOLAR DAY WITH
THE TIME KEPT BY OFFICIAL ATOMIC
CLOCKS.
TO SEE HOW THAT WORKS, WE HAVE
AN EXPLAINER ON OUR SCIENCE
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JOIN US ON-LINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.